# client-server Architecture -

## client -
Any user facing interactive end. ex: android app , app on webapp.  

## server -
Server can be a hardware or a software.  
``It is a hardware or a computer program that "provides a service" to another computer program or a different machine.``
____________________________________________________________________________________________
- assuming you have api based architecture , you have to prepare contracts(api).   
In this contract you have to tell- what url to hit , what type of request to hit , what data to send , what data to receive etc...

- `what convention we use to setting up api ?` (conventions==life-easy)
1. REST  2. SOAP 3. GRPC  4.GRAPHQL ...

# REST(representational State Transfer)-
- Every real life entity is expected to be represented as a `"resource"`. ex: user , movie , city etc.
-  everytime with a RESTful API request , we have to sent type/method of the request.  
(differences based on rest conventions)  
1. GET - retrieve info about a "resource".
2. POST - create side effects on a "resources
3. PUT - complete update to "resource"
4. PATCH - partial update to "resource"
5. DELETE - delete "resource"
- dedicated URLs
- in rest convention , data/messages apart from URL are sent in `json`.

### GET VS PUT 
1. In get req. , data is sent in URL , that means it gets saved in our history , we can log it , cache it etc.
2. In post req, , generally data is not expected to be sent in URL , rather than in request body/payload.

## three ways in which you can send data-
1. request params , ex: /movies/blackPanther
2. query params , ex: /categories/electronics?company=samsung&order=desc&filter=price => {after ?}
3. request body , ex: payload/body => key-value pair

## monolith -
- monolith is an architecture to build projects in which every service you have to give to the end user is written inside same project. ex: [auth,chat,email,msg]
## microservices -
- microservice isolate every service all together. ex: [auth],[chat],[email],[msg].


